# Data Camp Course 
------------------
This course was taught by A. Gramfort and T. Moreau (Inria)

The pratical work consisted in 2 projects :

* **First project (Projet Individuel - Human Locomotion):** This was a personnal project. The goal was to participate with all students of the Master 2 Data Science students to a Data Science Competition hosted on the website [*RAMP*](https://ramp.studio/). The objective was to explore data, pre-process data and propose a model enabling to recognize the start and end times of footsteps contained in accelerometer and gyrometer signals recorded with Inertial Measurement Unit (IMUs). The files in this repositorry mainly consist of files given as part of the challenge. All credits are given to the authors and the files can be found [here](https://github.com/ramp-kits/human_locomotion) on GitHub and [here](https://ramp.studio/events/human_locomotion_datacamp2020) on RAMP. My personal work can mainy be seen in the file `Projet Individuel - Human Locomotion\submissions\my_submission\estimator.py`. The original files, included the markdown of the repository are here to understand the challenge and what participants had to submit in order to understand my work in the file cited above. *If you are an original author or a visitor and consider that the work has not been cited correctly, please contact me at bastien.billiot@ensae.fr and I will correct this.*

* **Second project (Projet Groupe - Instagram Engagement Rate) :** This was a group project made with four other students. The goal of the project was to propose a data science challenge (comparable to Kaggle Data Science competition) in the form of a [RAMP](https://ramp.studio/) challenge. Our group decided to propose to participants to design models enabling to predict the Engagement Rate per Post (ERP). Indeed, over the past decade Instagrm as grown as a powerful tool for brands to market their products or services thanks to influencers. Indeed, these influencers develop a strong relationship of trust and proximity with sometimes a very large followers base that represent potential buyers (when the customer base and the brand fit). Thus, predicting the ERP and link this KPI to follow-up sales ones can become a powerful and key tool for brands to monitor new marketing influence strategies. In this challenge, our group designed a home-made webscrapping tool to extract the most important influencers n Instagram in the world and their most recent posts with related information. In the repository, we present the problem definition, a quick data exploration and a first model. More information can be found in the repository with the `engagement_rate_starting_kit` which introduces thee challenge, the competition and explains all other files included.